Fine-Tuned Test Case 1:
The appellants who were displaced persons from West Pakistan were granted quasi permanent allotments of land in the village of Raikot in the Ludhiana District in 1949 by the Additional Custodian of the State of Punjab on the ground that their father was found to be entitled to a quasipermanent allotment in another village named Humbran in the same district.
Their father made an application for consolidation of his lands with those of the appellants, but the application was rejected.
During the pendency of the revision application of 14 quasi permanent allottees of the village Karodian, who were entitled to allotment of suburban land in favour of them in the year 1949, an order was passed cancelling the order of allotment made in their favour and allotting to them land in Karodan in substitution of the lands allotted to their father.
Acting suo motu on October 31, 1952, the Additional custodian made an order cancelling.
the order of the said allotment and allotment to the 14 allottee and instead allotted to them.
The land allotted was out of the land released upon the cancellation of the original allotment.
On October 6, 1955, the Deputy Custod

Fine-Tuned Test Case 2:
On August 2, 1,894, a Raja of Jharia granted mukarrari lease of coal and coal mining rights in 300 bighas of land in village Kujama to Satya Karan Banerjee and Girish Chandra Samanta.
On June 15, 1900, his son, Durga Prasad Singh, granted coal and Coal mining rights to one Jugal Kishore Lal.
By diverse transfers, the interest of Samanata vested in Bagdigi Kijama Collieries Limited.
In 1941, the plaintiffs made an inquiry and came to know that the defendants had encroached upon their coal mines on the northern side and removed coal from the encroached portion and had rendered the remaining coal of the encroachment portion unworkable.
The plaintiffs filed a suit for reliefs, inter alia, (a) that the intermediate boundary line between the plaintiffs ' coal land and the defendants ' land be ascertained and fixed, (b) that an enquiry be made and the quantity of coal cut and removed by the defendants from the plaintiff 's coal land as also the quantity

Fine-Tuned Test Case 3:
The sellers were registered dealers under section 11 of the Bombay Sales Tax Act and claimed exemption from sales tax in respect of sales of cotton and castor oil on the ground that these sales were oil FOB contracts, under which they continued to be the owners of the goods till the goods had crossed the customs barrier and thus entered the export stream, and so no tax was realisable on these sales in view of the provisions of article 286(1)(b) of the Constitution.
The Sales Tax Officer rejected their claim for exemption and assessed them to sales tax on a taxable turnover including these sales.
He also assessed them for purchase tax under section 10(b) Of the Act on their purchase of castor Oil which they later sold for the sum of Rs. 6,47,509 1 6.
They moved the High Court under article 226 of the Constitu tion for the issue of appropriate writs quashing the order of assessment and the notice of demand and for prohibiting the Sales tax Officer from taking any steps pursuant to the order or the notice.
It was held that the goods remained the sellers ' property till they had been brought on board the ship and so the sales were exempted from tax under article 286

Fine-Tuned Test Case 4:
The appellant was charged with murder and sentenced to death under section 302, I.P.C., of the Indian Penal Code.
The prosecution case was that due to enmity the appellant caused injuries to Sheo Sahai, who was sleeping in his cattle shed in village Bhadurpur Ghar, with a sword at about mid night on the night between June 14 and June 15, 1960, and that he thereafter went to the Canal Distributory at some distance from the village and had a bath there.
He lodged a report there and delivered the sword which was found stained with human blood to the Police Station.
Thereafter he made an extra judicial confession to one Ujagar Singh when he was having a bath in the Canal, to his purchasing the sword and to his delivering it at the police Station after he had dictated the report.
Both the Sessions judge and the High Court accepted the evidence of the prosecution and convicted the appellant.
On appeal by special leave to the Supreme Court it was contended for the appellant that the entire report dictated by him was inadmissible in evidence as its contents amounted to a confession of the offence by the appellant made to a Police Officer and that the evidence relied upon was insufficient to establish that the

Fine-Tuned Test Case 5:
One S was in the employ of the appellant as a crosscutter.
It was alleged that he came drunk to the mill and abused the Engineer, the Secretary and others and threatened them with physical violence.
He was caught hold of by other workmen and taken outside and abused them again.
Thereupon the appellant served a charge sheet on him on June 24, 1958, and asked him to show cause why his services should not be terminated on account of his grave indiscipline and misconduct.
S gave an explanation denying the allegations of fact but admitted that he had come at the relevant time for taking his wages for that week.
On June 25, 1958 S was informed that in view of his denial, a departmental inquiry would be held and he was placed under suspension pending inquiry.
The same day S protested against his suspension and requested that in any case the departmental enquiry should be expedited.
As no inquiry was held till July 2, the appellant terminated the services of S under r. 18(a) of the Standing Orders without holding any departmental Inquiry and communicated the order to S the same day.
A dispute was raised by the union which was referred to the Industrial Tribunal for adjudication by the Government of

Fine-Tuned Test Case 6:
The appellant, a postman attached to the Bulandshahr post office, was tried for offences under section 52 of the Indian Post Office Act, 1898, and in two of the three cases also for offence under sections 467 and 471 Of the Indian Penal Code.
He was charged with having either stolen or secreted five registered letters and with having fabricated receipts showing that the registered letters were received by the addressees.
The appellant 's defence was that there were two factions in the post office and that these articles were planted by the opposite party and that the planting must have occurred in the Kotwali when the Sub Inspector purported to make a list of the articles seized from the house in which the appellant lives.
Further, according to him, neither the house nor the almirah from which the articles were said to have been seized was in his exclusive possession and that fact was not denied that the house which consists of two rooms only had been rented in his father 's name and that both of them live in those two rooms.
It was contended on his behalf that the search was inasmuch as it was in contravention of the provisions of sections 103 and 165 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and that in

Fine-Tuned Test Case 7:
Amarchand N. Shroff died on July 7, 1949, and his partners Mangaldas, Hiralal and Ramesh carried on the partnership up to November 30, 1949.
In respect of the work done up to the death of Amarchand the realisations were to be divided amongst the partners, but in respect of work done after that date the realisation was to be shared out between the partners.
For the five assessment years 1950 51 to 1954 55 the following amounts were received : Rs. 37,847/ , As.
43,162/ , Rs. 34,899/ and 702 Rs. 32,523/ by the heirs and legal representatives of the deceased out of the outstandings.
The Income tax Officer sought to tax these realisations under section 34(1) (b) read with section 24B of the Income tax Act.
He assessed the amounts in the hands of the heirs as a Hindu undivided family.
On appeal the Appellate Assistant Commissioner held that the amounts were not the income of the Hindu undiided family but merely represented inheritance or realisations of the assets of Am.
Shroff.
Thereafter proceedings were started by the Income

Fine-Tuned Test Case 8:
Section 25(4) of the Indian Income tax Act, 1922, provides that where any business, profession or vocation on which tax was at any time charged under the provisions of the Act, 1918, is discontinued, unless there has been a succession by virtue of which no tax shall be payable in respect of the income, pro fits and gains of the period between the end of the previous year and the date of such discontinuance.
Sub sec.
(3) of section 25 provides that "where there is a succession taking place after April 1, 1939, where the person who was at the commencement of the Income tax (Amendment) Act, 1939 carrying on any business or profession, is succeeded in such capacity by another person, the change not being merely a change in the constitution of a partnership, no tax should be payable by the first mentioned person in regard to the income of the business, profits, gains and losses of such succession.
" The appellant, a firm, was assessed to income tax for the years 1948 49 and 1949 50 on the claim that it had transferred its business to a limited company with effect from November 13, 1948, by an instrument executed on February 7, 1948.
The claim was rejected by the

Fine-Tuned Test Case 9:
In 1947 certain commodities including chuni could only be exported from the former Dholpur State on export permits issued by the customs department of the said State.
It was also the practice in that State that when permits for export were issued, export duties had to be paid in advance, though the actual export was made later.
In June 1947 the respondent was granted a permit for export of 15,000 maunds of chuni and in connection therewith he deposited Rs. 30,000/as export duty in advance.
This permit had been granted on June 28, 1947 and remained in force upto December 2, 1947.
By May 15, 1949, the United State of Rajasthan was formed including the Matsya Union into which the former State had merged on March 17, 1948.
The United State was not bound by any liability which might have arisen against the State as it was not recognised as a sovereign by the United States.
On January 26, 1950, when the State refused to refund the amount of export duty paid by the respondent in January 1952, he filed a suit for refund of the amount in January, 1952, out of which appeal No. 887 has arisen.
Held, (i) that the

Fine-Tuned Test Case 10:
Section 2(vi) of the (No. 4 of 1936) provided that "wages" meant all remuneration, capable of being expressed in terms of money, which would, if the terms of the contract of employment, express or implied, were fulfilled, be payable.
The definition of the term "wage" was amended in 1958 by section 2(a) (a) which provided, inter alia, that " wages" meant "all remunerations".
The management of the appellant Sugar Works Ltd. entered into an agreement with its workmen, the respondents, that effect would be given to the wage structure, prescribed by the said award.
In spite of the award and the agreement the appellant paid its employees only As.
10/10/ per day and that led to the present claim made by the respondents under section 15 of the Act for an order directing the appellant to pay to them the said prescribed wages.
On appeal by special leave, the High Court held that section 15 was applicable to the case because the wages prescribed by an award did amount to wages as defined by the Act.
It was contended for the appellant that the claim of the workmen was incompetent under the Act because the rates of

Fine-Tuned Test Case 11:
The general practice of the respondent company was to retire its employees at the age of 55 though in certain cases the company in its discretion permitted an employee to continue beyond that age.
In September, 1959 an agreement was entered into between the company and its employees in Calcutta under which age of retirement was extended to 58 years subject to the employees passing a medical examination on reaching the age Of 55.
Shortly after this the company 's employees at Bombay raised a dispute regarding their retirement age and claimed that no workman should be retired from service before he bad completed 60 years of age, which dispute was ultimately referred to the Industrial Tribunal, Maharashtra.
The Tribunal directed that the age should be 58 but the company may in its own discretion and with the express or implied consent of the employee concerned continue an employee after he attains that age, and it was against this decision that the present appeal was filed by the workmen.

Fine-Tuned Test Case 12:
The assessee was a Hindu undivided family headed by one Sri Trivikram Narain Singh who was the original founder and owner of Ausanganj State in the district of Benaras.
In 1796 there were some disputes between Babu Ausan Singh and the Zamindars and the matter was referred to the Board of Revenue in Calcutta.
By a compromise between the British Government and the then Jagirdar Hat Nain Singh whereby the Government granted a pension of Rs. 36,322/8/ to him and his heirs in perpetuity in 1837, the amount of this pension was calculated on the basis of 1/4th of the revenue of the Jagir.
During the previous year of the assessment year 1949 50 the assessee received a sum of RS.
36,396/ on account of the aforesaid pension.
The Income tax Officer held that it was a regular annual income and did not fall within the category of agricultural income tax.
He observed that "in fact this income arose from a statutory obligation of the Government to pay it, and although the Government recouped this from the person with whom the land

Fine-Tuned Test Case 13:
The workmen of the Bombay Port Trust, who were represented by the General Workers Union of the Trust, made a demand for a fixed recess of two hours for the shore crew working at the Alexandra Docks, the Prince 's and Victoria Docks and the Flotilla Crew.
The Trust rejected the demand on the ground that it was a device to get 4 hours ' overtime and that if the demand was pressed a three shift system would be introduced.
In 1956 the workmen retraced their steps and accepted a 2 hours ' variable recess but requested that it should be as near the middle of the shift as possible.
Meanwhile studies were being made and it was found that the work hours at the different Docks were not equal: they were heavier at the Docks Alexandra than at the other Docks.
It was resolved that the Trustees agreed to accept the hours of rest at fixed hours for half the crew different from the rest hours of the other half so that a part of the crew was always available on hand.
On June 25, 1960, the Trust issued a notice under section 9A of the , announcing the introduction of a change in the existing system of work of the shore crews working in the Alexandra and Prince '

Fine-Tuned Test Case 14:
The respondents made applications under section 33 C(2) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, praying for determination and computation of the benefit to which they were entitled under the Desai award as they were not satisfied with the fixation of their pay by the appellant bank under para 5.
5.
356 of the National Industrial Tribunal (Bank Disputes) Award of June 1962.
The respondents were divided into two groups, namely, those who had entered service before January 1, 1959 and those who entered service on or after that date, and the fitment of these workmen was dealt with in the same terms as in para.
292 of the Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate Tribunal in appeal.
Paragraph 5.356 provided that the workmen would be fitted in the new scales of pay from January, 1, 1962, on stage to stage adjustment basis, i.e., workmen who were drawing basic pay at a particular stage in the time scale of the All India Industrial Tribunal, Bank Disputes, (Sastry) Award, 1953, as modified would draw basic pay on the same scale applicable to them under the new scale of pay provided by the Desa.
A similar question of

Fine-Tuned Test Case 15:
Respondents 1 to 3 who were appointed as trustees of an alleged Pachai Kandai Udayavar Temple filed a suit under section 87 of the Madras Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act, 1951, in the Court of the District Munsif, Turaiyur, for possession of the properties in question.
The appellants, who were the original grantees of the grant deed, contended that the said properties had been granted to the temple and formed part of its properties and that they were entitled to the possession of them.
On these pleadings, oral and documentary evidence was adduced by the parties and the trial judge came to the conclusion that the grant of the Inam was a personal Inam and that it was not a religious endowment within the meaning of the Act and that the appellants had acquired title to the properties by prescription.
Held, (i) that on the facts and circumstances of the case the grant was a grant in favour of a person burdened with the obligation of performing certain services in a Matam; (ii) that the suit was not one of a suit for possession by prescription but one for a declaration of title and a permanent injunction restraining the respondents from interfering

Fine-Tuned Test Case 16:
Section 237(b) of the , provides that "all the irregularities and contraventions in respect of the provisions of the or of any other law for the time being in force and the person or persons responsible for such irregularities or contraventions shall be reported to the Company Law Board.
The Chairman of the Board of the Barium Chemicals Ltd. made an order on May 19, 1965, appointing 4 persons as Inspectors for investigating the affairs of the appellant No. I, a company, since its incorporation in the year 1961 and to report to the company Law Board inter alia, all the irregularities, contraventions, irregularities and irregularities in the report.
On June 4, 1965 the company preferred a writ petition under article 226 of the Constitution in the Punjab High Court for the issue of a writ of mandamus or other appropriate writ, direction or order quashing the order made by the Board dated May 19.
It was contended on behalf of the appellants that the order was invalid as it was made at the instance of the shareholders and was void as offending articles 14 and 19(1) (g) Of the Constitution.
Held, (i) that on a true construction of section 237 (b) the order having in fact

Fine-Tuned Test Case 17:
The President, on August 10, 1950, passed the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order, 1950 under article 341 of the Constitution setting out in its schedule the various castes which were declared Sche duled castes.
It was agreed that at the relevant time Item 40 of Part 13 of the Schedule to the Order stood as follows: "Sunri excluding Saha".
In the election to a seat in the West Bengal Legislative Assembly from the Khargram Murshidabad constitutency reserved for members of the Scheduled Caste, two contestants, Abhoy Pada Saha and Sudhir Kumar Mondal, were declared elected.
Abhoy Saha described himself in the nomination paper as "a member of the Sunri caste which is a Scheduled Caste".
Sudhir objected to this nomination contending that he did not belong to any Schedule Caste and the objection was rejected by the Returning Officer.
At the hearing of the petition by the Election Tribunal, however, he challenged the election only on the ground that he was a member of Saha caste and not member of aSchedule Caste.
The Election Tribunal rejected this contention and dismissed the petition.
On appeal,

Fine-Tuned Test Case 18:
Rule 21 A of the Rules framed by the State Government under section 19(1) of the Madras General Sales Tax Act, 1939, provided that "when the ownership of the business of a dealer liable to pay the tax under the Act is entirely transferred, any tax payable in respect of such business and remaining unpaid at the time of the transfer shall be recoverable from the transferor or the transferee as if they were the dealers liable.
" The respondent purchased by a registered instrument dated October 5, 1956, the business carried on by one Purushottam Raju under the name All India Trading Company.
He paid some amounts towards sales tax but there remained some arrears of sales tax.
The Sales tax authorities attempted to recover the arrear of tax from the respondent as the purchaser of business from his predecessor in title, but he denied liability to pay sales tax and his contention was over ruled by the Deputy Commercial Tax Officer and the Board of Revenue.
On appeal the High Court held that Rule 21A of the Sales Tax Rules was illegal and ultra vires and that the respondent was not liable for the sales tax due from the trans feree.
It was contended for the respondent that the word "turnover"

Fine-Tuned Test Case 19:
The Village Panchayat of Kanhan Pipri, originally constituted under the C.P. & Berar Panchyat Act, 1946, passed a resolution on July 14, 1961, with a view to levy octroi tax on goods coming within its local limits as per the Schedule No. 1 of the Rules.
On November 17, 1962, resolution No. 5 was passed which read as follows: "5.
The meeting considered the question of imposition of Octroi duty.
It has been unanimously resolved that by virtue of Resolution No. 2, dated 14 7 61, that octoi duty shall be imposed on the goods coming into the local limits, the committee accepts the same.
" On January 26, 1963, a public notice was issued under r. 3(b) of the Maharashtra Village panchayats Taxes and Fees Rules, 1960, under which a public objection was preferred against the proposed levy of octrois tax.
In February 25, 1963 a resolution dated April 6, 1964, was passed by the Standing Committee, Zila Parishad, Nagpur, which directed the imposition of the tax on all goods coming in the limits of the village.
Thereafter, on March 18

Fine-Tuned Test Case 20:
The respondent No. 1, a thika tenant, instituted a suit for ejectment of three persons, namely, Abdul Rahim, Abdul Hamid and Abdul Gaffur, from the property in suit.
The suit was decreed by a Munsif on March 18, 1949 after the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act, 1949, had come into force.
On October 21, 1952, a new Act was passed amending the definition of thika tenants in the Act and substituting a new one.
In 1953 an Amending Act, 1953, was passed changing the definition still further and introducing important changes.
It was contended on behalf of the appellant that he was not entitled to the benefit of the Act as he had sold his interest by a registered sale deed dated April 12, 1949.
Held, that the appellant was entitled to be protected by the provisions of section 3(1)(a) of the Thika tenancy Act of 1949 as amended by Act of 1953.
Section 3(2) of that Act provided that the landlord shall not be liable to ejectment in the absence of any notice to quit in accordance with section 3.
of the Act unless there is an order of ejectment having been served

Fine-Tuned Test Case 21:
The Orissa Superior Judicial Service (senior branch) is a combined cadre consisting of officers holding purely judicial posts as well as posts which are essentially administrative in character.
It consists of eight district and sessions judges, two additional district and session judges, secretary to government in law department, superintendent and legal remembrancer, law department and Registrar of the Orissa High Court.
The High Court was repeatedly requesting the government to send back judicial officers working in administrative posts as district judges or as addl.
district judges as the case may be, after they had held those posts for three years or more but those requests were not respected.
In February, 1965, the High Court took a decision to the effect that as a general policy, judicial officers in special posts, whether special cadre or non cadre, should be recalled to the regular line of service after the completion of three years, so that " officers may not remaining out of touch from regular service for continuously long periods of time and will not suffer by being deprived by the being deprived of a continuous supply of service.
" Held, (i) that in view of article 229 of the Constitution, the power to appoint the Registrar of a High Court is exclusively that of the Chief

Fine-Tuned Test Case 22:
Section 5(1) of the West Bengal Special Courts Act, 1950 (West Bengal Act X of 1950) provided that "a Special Court shall try such offences or classes of cases, as the State Government may by general or special order in writing, direct.
(2) No. direction shall be made under sub section (1) for the trial of an offence for which an accused person was being tried before the commencement of this Act but, such direction may be made in re spect of any offence, save as such offence was committed before or after this Act.
" The respondent and 49 other persons were charged with various offences alleged to have been committed by them in the course of their raid as an armed gang on a certain factory known as the Jessop Factory at Dum Dum and they were convicted and sentenced to varying terms of imprisonment by the Special Court to which the case was sent for trial by the Governor of West Bengal by a notification dated 26th January, 1950, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 (1).
Thereupon the respondent applied to the High Court under article 226 of the Constitution for the issue of a writ of certiorari quashing the conviction and sentence on the ground that the Special court had no jurisdiction to try

Fine-Tuned Test Case 23:
On September 2, 1963, the son of Raj Kumar filed a complaint before the Nyaya Panchayat, Jokha Khas, alleging that he had been abused and be laboured and his property worth Rs. 40/ damaged.
The case was adjourned to December 25, 1963.
On October 11, 963, Mahabir, the accused, made an application under section 85 of the U.P. Panchyat Raj Act, 1947, to S.D.M., Deoria, to transfer the proceedings on the ground that the complainant Yashoda was father of Bunna Prasad, Sarpanch of Nyaya Khas.
This application was rejected and a notice was issued to the five members of the Pachayat to hear the case on December 13, but no action was taken till December 26, 1963 as the notice was served on Shri K. R. Singh, Additional Sub magistrate, who was absent on December 23, did not give any further details about his orders and did not take any further action till December 25.
No application dated December 21, 363, which was not accepted by the P. P. was produced before the N. P., and on

Fine-Tuned Test Case 24:
The workmen of Orient Paper Mills Ltd., Brajrajnagar, who were engaged in an industrial dispute with the management of the company, were referred by the State Government under section 10(1) (d) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1962, for adjudication by the Tribunal enumerating 30 different items of dispute.
The Tribunal found that there were only two other paper mills in the region and that there was no identical industry in this region comparable with the company.
It came to the view that minimum wages were higher than the minimum wages paid by the company but failed to fix the minimum wage in the award in accordance with those minimum wages being paid in those industries.
Held, that the principle of industry cum region has to be applied by an Industrial Court when it proceeds to consider questions like wage structure, dearness allowance and similar conditions of service and that it would not be proper to compare the wage structure for these two Mills with that of the Company.
Even in the same line of business, it would be improper to compare (for example) a small struggling concern with a large flourishing concern.
In the alternative, the Tribunal committed an error inasmuch as it tried to neutralise about 36 per cent of the

Fine-Tuned Test Case 25:
The appellant, a jailor in the State of Saurashtra, was charged with having committed certain acts of misappropriation of food stuffs meant for prisoners, maltreatment of prisoners and acceptance of illegal gratification from them.
On September 4, 1954, the appellant filed a written statement and an enquiry was held by the Inspector General of Prisons, Saurashtra.
The Enquiry Officer made a report and on or about January 7, 1955, the following notice was issued to the appellant calling upon him to show cause why he should not be dismissed from service: "To Shri Bhaishankar Avalram Joshi, Accountant, Rajkot Central Prison (Under suspension) Charges against you have been framed against you under section 3 54 and in particular, in respect of the charges of having accepted illegal gratification, have been established to the satisfaction of Government, you are hereby asked to show why the punishment of dismissal from service should not not be inflicted upon you.
You should please submit your reply to this office, through the Superintendent, Central Prison,, without fail, within a week from the date of this letter.
" The plaintiff filed a statement against the said charges and was dismissed by an order dated February 2, 1955

Fine-Tuned Test Case 26:
Section 3 of the Public Employment (Requirement as to Residence) Act, 1957 (44 of 1957) made special provision for requirement as to residence and came into force on March 21, 1959.
The Act gave the power to the Central Government to make rules in respect of certain classes of public employment in certain areas.
Section 4 of the Rules had to be laid down before the House of Parliament for a period of not less than 30 d s and Parliament could make such alterations as it liked.
Under section 5 the rules had a life of 5 years but by subsequent legislation the period was extended by another 5 years.
It was contended on behalf of the petitioners, who were non domicile employees of the Government of Andhra Pradesh, that they were not eligible for appointment to a post under the State Government or a post within the Telengana area under the Rules.
Held, (i) that the provisions of cl.
(3) of the Act were not ultra vires and the Act did not contravene article 14 of the Constitution and that the Act was not void inasmuch as it had been passed in pursuance of a decision of the Legislature of the State in accordance with the provisions Of article

Fine-Tuned Test Case 27:
By an agreement dated November 27, 1954, a right to exhibit cinematograph films was granted to a company called "Filmistan" on certain terms and conditions.
The company instituted a suit for a declaration that it was entitled pursuant to the agreement to exhibit motion pictures in the theatre.
By an order dated December 1, 1960, the suit was disposed of as compromised.
Pursuant to this order a fresh agreement was executed by Raval and Faraqui in writing incorporating the said agreement with the variation as to rental.
On September 1, 1963, Filmistan filed a suit No. 1465 of 1963 in the Court of Small Causes, Ahmedabad, for declaration that as sub lessee or as lessee under law it was.
 entitled to obtain and remain in possession of the theatre and to exhibit moviemovie films and to hold "entertainment performances" etc.
in the theatre, and that one Shabeer Hussain Khan Tejabwala had no right, title or interest in the

Fine-Tuned Test Case 28:
The appellants, a firm registered under the Indian Income tax Act, 1922, carried on business at Madras in drugs, chemicals, mercury, camphor and silk yam and as money lenders.
In the books of account of the appellants which were main tained according to the mercantile system there was a current sarafi account in respect of their transactions with a firm styled "Bhojaji Sobhachand" carrying on business in Bombay as importers of yam.
The Income tax Officer disallowed their claim holding that "these transactions were mere accommodations which can have no bearing to the regular business carried on by the assessee" The Appellate Assistant Commissioner held that the debt did not arise, in the course of the appel lant 's business as chemists and druggists nor in the, course of their money lending business.
On appeal to the High Court under section 66(2) of the Madras High Court the question was referred to the Tribunal as to whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the disallowance of the bad debt of Rs. 2,68,385 was right in law in the opinion of the Tribunal holding that the case was not one incurred in the

Fine-Tuned Test Case 29:
Section 5(1) of the Taxation on Income (Investigation Commission) Act, 1947, provides as follows: " The Central Government may at any time before the first day of September, 1948, refer to the Commission any case in which the Government has prima facie reasons for believing that a person has to a substantial extent evaded tax, together with such material as may be available in support of such belief, and may, at any. time before that date, apply to it for the withdrawal of any case thus referred.
" The petitioner company was found to have made secret profits which it had not disclosed and to have thus evaded income tax.
The petitioner and other members of his family were referred to the Investigation Commission under the provisions of section 5(4) of Act XXX of 1947 for investigation.
On the 15th of September 1953, the Commission notified the petitioners that their cases had been referred for investigation and they were called upon to furnish certain material, as detailed in Annexure "B" of the petition, to the commission.
In April, 1954, the petitioner filed a petition under article 32 of the Constitution for the issue of appropriate writs restraining the Commission from taking any action against him under section 5

Fine-Tuned Test Case 30:
The appellant, a Sub Divisional Officer in the Public Works Department, Pepsu, was charged under section 465 of the Indian Penal Code for forging the thumb impression of Parma, a khalasi servant, and under section 409 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for criminal misappropriation of Rs. 51.
The prosecution case was that there was, in fact, no person of the name Parma in the roll for April 1951, and a sum of Rs 51 was shown as paid to him for his wages, the payment being vouched by thumbimpression.
There was an application by the Department for sanction to prosecute the appellant for an offence under sections 409 and the Chief Secretary, Home Department, sent the communication, Exhibft PX, stating that he had been "directed to convey sanction of the Government to his prosecution".
In view of this no question was raised by the trial Magistrate or the High Court that the prosecution was bad for want of sanction.
But after the appeal by the State Government was raised before the Supreme Court, it was discovered that in fact there was no order of sanctioning the prosecution, and that there having been an acquittal of the appellant by the Magistrate, the materials on record did not justify

Fine-Tuned Test Case 31:
The assessee was assessed to income tax for the years 1943 44 to 1947 1948 and 1951 1952 by the Third Income tax Officer, C 1 Ward, Bombay, at and for Rs. 40,178 4 0.
Not having paid up the assessed amount of tax a recovery certificate was issued to the Additional Collector of Bombay under section 46(2) of the Income tax Act, 1951, in respect of his business of Indestro Sales and Service Co.
in respect of which he was the sole proprietor.
On the 1st February, 1954, an Additional Collector issued a notice of demand on the assessee for payment of the said assessed amount.
No payment having been made he attached the goodwill and tenancy rights in the said premises by a warrant of attachment issued on the 24th March, 1954.
The sale was held on the 25th February, 1955, fetching a price of Rs. 33,000 and it was confirmed on the 30th March.
In respect of the sale proceeds not being sufficient to satisfy the assessed tax the additional Collector on the 7th June, 555 1955, issued a. notice under section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act, 1876, requiring him to appear before him in person on

Fine-Tuned Test Case 32:
The respondent, a Custodian of Evacuee Property, entered into an agreement with the appellants, displaced persons, under which the mills and the factory in question were leased to them for a period of five years on the terms and conditions set out therein.
There was a sale of the stock of raw materials, unsold finished goods, spare parts, cars, trucks and other movables which were in the mills, with elaborate provisions for the determination and payment of the price therefor in due course, and thirdly, there was an agreement to sell the mills to them in certain events and subject to certain conditions.
In pursuance of this agreement the appellant were put in possession of the mills on 31 8 1952.
On 12 2 1954 the respondent issued a notice under section 12 of the , that the lease should be cancelled and that they might be evicted.
The appellants contended that the respondent had no authority to issue the notice and that it was therefore illegal.
Held, (i) that section 12 did not confer any power on the respondent to cancel a lease granted by him under section 8(1) of the Act, and (ii) that no directions could be given under section 10 of the

Fine-Tuned Test Case 33:
The appellant, an Advocate of the High Court of Bombay, was detained under an order of detention passed by the Government of Bombay on the 8th June, 1955, in pursuance of a warrant issued under section 7 of the (Act IV of 1950) for the arrest and detention of the respondent, an officer of the Indian Air Force.
The order was challenged on the grounds, inter alia, (1) that the order was mala fide as it was passed for the ulterior purpose of preventing the appellant 's freedom of speech and freedom of professional activity in the sphere of Goan affairs by reason of his known views in this behalf, (2) the detaining authority failed to apply its mind to the existence or otherwise of the legitimate objects of detention, (3) the grounds of detention were vague, (4) the claim of the State that no particulars of the grounds could be furnished in public interest was unsustainable and in any case mala fides, and (5) the State 's claim of State that there was no evidence to show that the grounds were vague was unsustainable.
Held, that the validity of the order passed on the appellant was not challenged under article 226 of the Constitution.
It was not a

Fine-Tuned Test Case 34:
Five persons including the three appellants were prosecuted for the murder of one Ram chander Shelke.
Each was convicted and each was sentenced to death under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.
There were four eye witnesses, but two of them were found to be unreliable.
The matter was referred to a third judge who agreed with the first judge and held that all five were guilty.
On the question of sentence he held that the death sentences should be maintained and that those of the other two should be commuted to transportation for life.
All five convicts applied to the High Court for leave to appeal and the petition was granted.
It was contended for the appellants that the conviction and sentence of death were not valid as they were not guilty and should be acquitted.
Held, that the third judge was right in holding that the convictions and sentences were valid and that the evidence adduced by the eye witnesses was not unreliable and that they could not be regarded as unreliable inasmuch as they gave substantially the same version of events as the witnesses did.
In the absence of such corroboration of the testimony of the witnesses it was not necessary for the court to rely on them to say that they saw all five accused attacking

Fine-Tuned Test Case 35:
The Madras Commercial Crops Markets Act (Mad XX of 1933) was passed to provide for the better regulation of the buying and selling of commercial crops in the State of Madras and for that purpose to establish markets and make Rules for their proper administration.
On May 18, 1951, the State Government issued G. 0. 1049 (Food and Agriculture Department) extending the provisions of the Act to Ramanathapuram and Tirunelveli Districts in respect of cotton and groundnuts.
By a similar G. O. dated March 8, 1952, the Government directed the constitution of a Market Committee at Virudhunagar and markets at (1) Virudunagar, (2) Rajapalayan and (3) Sattur in the District, and the Market Committees were duly constituted and on January 9, 1953, the Market Committee issued a notice stating that the Act and the Rules had come into force on January 1, 1953 and requiring persons who did business in cotton 94 and groundnut to take out licences as provided therein.
A further notice dated January 17, 953, stated that all the traders in Cotton and Groundnut who did not take out the licences on or before February 15, 1953

Fine-Tuned Test Case 36:
The appellant was the sole executor of the will of one Lakshmamma, executed by her on August 22, 1945, in favour of her husband Sadagopalachar.
The appellant filed a suit for a declaration that she was the owner of the properties mentioned in the schedule attached to the plaint and as such was entitled to dispose of them by a will and be asked for consequential reliefs purporting to give effect to the bequests made by the said will.
Held, that under the will the appellant was entitled only to a life interest in items I and 2 and that on her death the said items would vest in respondents 2 to 4 and respondent 5 respectively.
By his plaint the appellant also claimed to recover Rs. 2,106 which had been collected by respondent 1 by way of income from the suit lands and a further prayer was made for the payment of current mesne profits by the respondent 1.
It was contended for the appellant that the will was not valid as it was not a valid will as it did not contain any provision for the disposal of any of the lands mentioned in it.
There was nothing in the will which showed that the appellant had any intention of disposing of the said lands.


Fine-Tuned Test Case 37:
Under section 32(1) proviso (1) of the Travancore Income tax Act, 1922, a business loss incurred in the erstwhile State of Cochin can be set off against the business profits made in that State.
The question for determination in these two appeals was whether in the case of one of the assessees the year ending June 30, 1949, was the previous year for the assessment year 1950 51 with the result that it should be assessed under the Indian Income Tax Act of 1922.
In the other case the question was whether a loss arising outside the State was a loss for the purpose of the first proviso to the section and could be deducted from the profits accruing and arising in the State, and the High Court, after referring to several decided cases, answered the question in favour of the appellant.
On appeal by special leave to the Supreme Court it was contended for the appellant that the loss of Rs. 79,275 incurred in Cochin State could not be deducted under the provisions of section 32 of the Act.
Held, (i) that in the absence of any question of law, the loss incurred outside the Indian State of Travanore was not a loss within the meaning

Fine-Tuned Test Case 38:
On March 18, 1952, the appellant No. 1 dismissed Louis Pereira, a bus conductor and proceedings were taken on a complaint by the Assistant Commissioner of Labour under section 33 read with section 31 of the , against the two appellants and the partners of the appellant Nos. 1 and 5 under section 31(1) of the (XIV of 1947).
The appellants contended that the conciliation proceedings could not be said to be pending when the dismissal of the workmen concerned had expired before the date fixed by the Government.
Held, that the Conciliation Officer was bound to make a report within 14 days of the commencement of the proceedings within such shorter period fixed by Government and that the object of conciliation under section 12 of the Act was to get a settlement of the dispute and therefore the proceedings were not said to have been pending.
The conciliation officer was not bound to report to the Government within such a short period as 14 days.
Section 33(1)(b) of section 33 of the said that during the pendency of any conciliation proceeding before a conciliation Officer or a Board or of any proceeding before the Labour Court or Tribunal or National Tribunal in respect of an industrial dispute, no employer shall alter to the

Fine-Tuned Test Case 39:
The appellant was charged under section 18(1) of the Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act, LVII of 1947, for receiving a pugree of Rs. 29,500 as consideration for putting the complainant in vacant possession of the flat and an additional amount of Rs 2,000 for the furniture, and that the complainant agreed to pay these sums.
The prosecution case was that the appellant demanded a sum of Rs 30,500 which was later on reduced to Rs. 28,500, and the complainant actually paid the accused two sums of 420 Rs. 500 each on 7th and 17th November, 1948.
He, however, got into touch with the police on 1 12, 1948, and in conjunction with the latter, a trap was laid for the appellant.
It was arranged that the respondent should bring with him Rs. 1,000, being the balance due in respect of the furniture and the police would give him Rs 29, 500 to be paid to the appellant, and as the appellant and his wife were leaving the flat, a man, who masqueraded as the complainant 's brother, threw off his disguise and disclosed his identity.
While the police were down below ready for the raid

Fine-Tuned Test Case 40:
On January 10, 1942, an agreement was entered into between the Rajah of Venkatagiri and one Sri Balumuri Nageswara Rao whereby the latter agreed to give annual leases in respect of certain slate quarries within his estate for five years in succession commencing from February 1942 if the Raja was satisfied with the work carried on by the lessee during the preceding year.
On the expiry of the fifth year, however, the Rajh granted another lease to the said N for a short period commencing on February 1, 1947, and ending on November 30, 1947.
In 1949 the estate of the appellant was notified under section 3 of the Madras Estate (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1948 (Madras Act XXVI of 1948), that the lease had been granted to him prior to July 1, 1945, and that he was required to show cause within two months from the date of receipt of the notice as to why the lease should not be terminated without any compensation under the second proviso to section 20(1) of the Abolition Act.
The appellant showed cause which apparently did not satisfy the said authorities and on February 12, 1952, a notice was issued from the

