Generated Summary pre:
 Tata Consultant Engineers, at its inception, was a partnership firm but subsequently the partnership was dissolved. In 1974 the undertaking became one of the divisions of Tata Sons Limited. The Union filed a statement before the Tribunal claiming an upward revision of the wage scales and dearness allowance.

Generated Summary 2:
 The workmen of the appellant, who were members of the Tata Consultant Employees Union, served a Charter of Demands on the appellant claiming an upward revision of the wage scales and dearness allowance and an increase from fifteen years to twenty years in the span for earning annual increments.
The claim was resisted by the appellant who maintained that the existing wage scales were fair and reasonable on a region-cum-industry basis and that it would not be possible for the appellant to bear the additional financial burden if the demands of the Union were accepted.
Held, that the appellant was a separate and independent division of Tata Sons Limited and had no "functional integrality" with the other divisions.
It was a service industry and not a manufacturing concern and there was little scope for diversification in the case of an engineering consultancy firm.
For the purpose of determining the financial capacity of the company, the Tribunal followed Unichem Laboratories v Workmen, where it was held that the gross profits should be computed without making deductions on account, and the instability in the business occasioned by the turbulent political situation in Iran, would be expected to be compensated by the development of different contracts in different countries.
Unichem Laboratories, Ltd. vs Their Workmen


Generated Summary 1:
 The workmen of the Tata Consultant Engineers Union served a Charter of Demands on the appellant in July, 1974.
The State Government made a reference to the Industrial Tribunal for adjudication of the dispute.
Thereafter the Union filed a statement before the Tribunal claiming an upward revision of the wage scales and dearness allowance and an increase from fifteen years to twenty years in the span for earning annual increments.
It was urged that the Efficiency Bar, as a feature of the pay scales, should be removed and that dearness allowances should be granted on a slab system.
Held, that the claim of the Union was resisted by the appellant who maintained that the existing wage scales were fair and reasonable on a region-cum- industry basis and that it would not be possible for the appellant to bear the additional financial burden if the demands of the union were accepted.
Holding it impossible in the circumstances to apply the principle of industry-cum region basis, the Tribunal turned to a consideration of the financial capacity of the company to bear an additional burden and proceeded on the footing that the appellant was a separate and independent division of Tata Sons Limited and had no "functional integrality" with the other divisions.
