FACTS:
Tata Consultant Engineers, at its inception, was a partnership firm but subsequently the partnership was dissolved and in 1974 the undertaking became one of the divisions of Tata Sons Limited. Out of 665 employees at Bombay, the draftsmen and the administrative staff number 306. These workmen are members of the Tata Consultant Employees Union. They served a Charter of Demands in July, 1974, on the appellant, and as their demands were not accepted and conciliation proceedings proved fruitless, the State Government made a reference of the dispute.

JUDGMENT:
The original award was completed and signed by the Tribunal, and it cannot be reopened now except for the limited purpose of Rule 31. We, therefore, see no ground for quashing the order dated December 22, 1978 of the Tribunal. In our opinion Civil Appeal No. 2299 of 1979 should be dismissed in its entirety. The Union therefore prays the honourable Tribunal to clarify the position and correct the award accordingly". P. 35. T. No. 50/ and house rent allowance at 30% of the basic salary. Rs. 600.

ANALYSIS:
The Tribunal took into account the two principles involved in the process, the financial capacity of the industry to bear the burden of an increased wage bill, and the prevailing wage structure on an industry- cum-region basis. The Union modified its demands but even the modified terms, according to the Tribunal, appeared to be on the high side. The particular character of the appellant, that it was a service industry and not a manufacturing concern, was taken into account and it was observed that unlike a manufacturing business there was little scope for diversification in the case of an engineering consultancy.

ARGUMENT:
Wage scale statements were filed by the parties before the Tribunal pertaining to several engineering consultancy organisations. In the absence of pertinent information concerning the strength of their labour force, the extent of their business, the financial position for some years, the capital invested, the precise nature of the business, the position regarding reserves, dividends declared and future prospects of the company, the Tribunal found that it was unable to rely on them as comparable concerns. The only contention of the workmen is that the Tribunal should have fixed the dearness allowance in communion with the cost of living index.

STATUTE:
Summarize statute: 10(1) (d), Industrial Tribunal, Maharashtra for adjudication. 292 of 1975. In making the application of 22nd December, 1978, the Union invoked the jurisdiction of the Tribunal under rule 31 of the Industrial Disputes (Bombay) Rules, 1957. The application before the Tribunal was filed under Rule 31 of the Bombay Industrial Disputes Rules 1957, which is as follows: "A Board, Court, Labour Court, Tribunal or Arbitrator may, at any time, suo moto, correct any clerical mistake or error arising from an accidental slip or omission in any proceedings"
