FACTS:
Summarize facts: Tata Consultant Engineers, at its inception, was a partnership firm but subsequently the partnership was dissolved and in 1974 the undertaking became one of the divisions of Tata Sons Limited. It functions as a consulting organisation and a service industry, and does not manufacture any product or carry on trade. Its work force consists of engineers and supervisors and different categories of workmen. Out of 665 employees at Bombay, the draftsmen and the administrative staff number 306. There was no separate dearness allowance until January, 1977 when it was introduced for the first time. The appellant had introduced various pay scales in 1973 and some time later they were revised. Dearness allowance became payable at 10% of the basic wage subject to a minimum

JUDGMENT:
Summarize judgment: T. M. Librarian. Civil Appeal No. 2299 of 1979 is allowed in part insofar that the order dated 22nd December, 1978 of the Industrial Tribunal, Maharashtra Bombay is quashed to the extent that it modifies the original award dated 20th December,1978, and the corrigendum made consequent thereto is also quashed. The second contention of the appellant is entitled to succeed. There is no order as to costs. We have already indicated that we agree with our brother Pathak, J., that the appeal (Civil Appeal No 2300 of 1979) filed by the workmen should also be dismissed. In the result both the appeals are dismissed without any order of costs. In our

ANALYSIS:
Summarize analysis: The need for revising the wage scales was not disputed by the appellant. The Union modified its demands but even the modified terms, according to the Tribunal, appeared to be on the high side inasmuch as the resulting total burden of Rs. 1.70 crores was much higher than the average profits could sustain. In proceeding to revise the wage structure the Tribunal took into account the two principles involved in the process, the financial capacity of the industry to bear the burden of an increased wage bill, and the prevailing wage structure on an industry- cum-region basis. The particular character of the appellant, that it was a service industry and not a manufacturing concern, was taken into account and it was observed that

ARGUMENT:
Summarize argument: Reference was made to the political uncertainty in Iran which had placed an appreciable part of the appellant's business in jeopardy and to various other factors, peculiar to an engineering consultancy business, beyond the appellant. It was pointed out that the dearness allowance and house rent allowance granted by the appellant made little impact in neutralising the cost of living. Reliance was placed on The Hindustan Times Ltd., New Delhi v. Wani INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL." In this appeal, the learned counsel for the appellant had covered a wide field, but in the end he states that the appellant is aggrieved by two matters only. Considering the appeal of Tata Consulting Engineers first, the contention of learned counsel

STATUTE:
Summarize statute: 10(1) (d), Industrial Tribunal, Maharashtra for adjudication. In making the application of 22nd December, 1978, the Union invoked the jurisdiction of the Tribunal under rule 31 of the Industrial Disputes (Bombay) Rules, 1957. Rule 31 provides: "31. Clerk/Steno/ Rs. 590-30-740-EB- Rs. 760-40-1000-50- £. 350-15-425-EB - Rs. 750-40,000-EB". The application was filed before the Tribunal on the basis of the judgment of the Bombay Labour Court, No. 292 of 1975. The order was passed by the tribunal on 22nd January, 1979.
