Fine-Tuned Test Case 1:
The appellants who were displaced persons from West Pakistan were granted quasi permanent allotment of land in the village of Raikot in Ludhiana District in 1949.
Their father Sardar Nand Singh who was found entitled to quasipermanent allotment in another village named Humbran in the same district, made an application for consolidation of his lands with those of the appellants in village Raikt during the pendency of this application.
This application was rejected by the Assistant Custodian on July 23, 1951, on the ground that no land was available there.
A revision petition preferred by the appellant against this order was dismissed by the Additional Custo dian on August 20, 1952.
On October 7, 1952, the appellant preferred a revision application before the Custodia General.
During the pendencies of the revision application, the Additional custododian for the State of Punjab cancelled the allotments of land to 14 quasi permanent allottees of the village Karodian in same district on the grounds that these persons were entitled to allotment.
of suburban land a had been wrongly fitted in that village, and instead allotted to them land in Karodan out of the land released upon the cancellation of allotment

Fine-Tuned Test Case 2:
On August 2, 1900, the Raja of Jharia granted mukarrari lease of the coal and coal mining rights in 300 bighas of land in village Kujama to Satya Karan Banerji and Girish Chandra Samanta.
On June 15,1900, his son, Raja Durga Prasad Singh, granted coal and mining rights to one Jugal Kishore Lal.
By diverse transfers, by diverse transfers the interest of Samanata vested in Bagdigi Kujam Collieries Limited.
As a result of a letter written by the Inspector of Mines on August 18, 1941, the plaintiffs made an inquiry and came to know that the defendants had encroached upon their coal mines on the northern side and removed coal from the encroached portion and had rendered the remaining coal of the encroachment portion unworkable.
The plaintiffs filed a suit for the reliefs prayed for, inter alia, (a) that the intermediate boundary line between the plaintiffs ' coal land and the defendants ' land be ascertained and fixed, (b)that the area encroached on by the defendants be directed to vacate the same, (c)that a permanent injunction be issued against the

Fine-Tuned Test Case 3:
The respondents, a firm registered under the Indian Partnership Act, claimed exemption from sales tax in respect of sales of cotton and castor oil on the ground that these sales were oil FOB contracts, under which they continued to be the owners of the goods till the goods had crossed the customs barrier and thus entered the export stream, and so no tax was realisable on these sales in view of article 286(1)(b) of the Constitution.
The Sales Tax Officer rejected their claim for exemption and assessed them to sales tax on a taxable turnover including these sales.
He also assessed the respondents to purchase tax under section 10(b) Of the Bombay Sales Tax Act on their purchase of castor Oil which they later sold for the sum of Rs. 6,47,509 1 6.
Notice of demand for the total sales tax and the purchase tax assessed was served on the respondents.
They moved the Bombay High Court under article 226 of the Constitu tion for the issue of appropriate writs for quashing the order of assessment and notice of demand and for prohibiting the sales tax officer from taking any steps pursuant to the order or notice.
But the High Court rejected the petition and held that the goods remained the sellers ' property till these crossed the

Fine-Tuned Test Case 4:
The appellant was convicted and sentenced to death for the murder of one Sheo Sahai.
The prosecution case was that due to enmity the appellant caused injuries to SheoSahai with a sword and the latter died of the injuries received.
He was taken in custody and as a result of the investigation was sent up for trial.
During the trial the appellant made an extra judicial confession to one Ujagar Singh when he was having a bath in the canal, to his purchasing the sword and to his delivering it at the police station after he had dictated the report.
Both the Sessions Judge and the High Court accepted the evidence of Ujgar Singh and relied on certain statements made by the appellant in his report dictated at the Police Station and considered those facts together with the motive and the evidence about the purchase of the sword sufficient to confirm the appellant 's conviction and sentence.
On appeal by special leave the appellant contended that the entire report dictated by him was inadmissible in evidence as its contents amounted to a confession of the offence by him made to a Police Officer and that the evidence relied upon was insufficient to establish that the appellant had murdered the deceased.
HELD: (i) There is good independent evidence with respect to

Fine-Tuned Test Case 5:
One Sankaran was in the employ of the appellant as a crosscutter.
It is said that on June 21, 1958, he came drunk to the mill and abused the Engineer, the Secretary and others and threatened them with physical violence.
He was caught hold of by other workmen and taken outside.
Thereupon the appellant served a charge sheet on him and asked him to show cause why his services should not be terminated on account of his grave indiscipline and misconduct.
Sankaran gave an explanation the same day denying the allegations of fact made against him, though he admitted that he had come to the mills at the relevant time for taking his wages for that week.
On June 25, 1958 he was informed that in view of his denial, a departmental inquiry would be held and he was also placed under suspension pending inquiry.
The same day he protested against his suspension and requested that in any case the departmental enquiry should be expedited.
No inquiry was held till July 2, 1958 and on July 8, 1958 the appellant terminated the services of sankaran under r. 18(a) of the Standing Orders without holding any departmental

Fine-Tuned Test Case 6:
The appellant, a postman attached to the Bulandshahr post office was tried for offences under section 52 of the Indian Post Office Act, 1898, and in two of the three cases also under sections 467 and 471 Of the Indian Penal Code.
He was acquitted by the Sessions judge but the State appealed to the High Court which held that the appellant had secreted the five registered letters in question and on this finding set aside his acquittal and convicted him.
The appellant contended that the search was illegal as it was in contravention of the provisions of sections 103 and 165 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and that in examining the appellant the Session Judge did not comply with the requirements of section 342(5) of the Criminal Procedure Code of India.
It was contended on behalf of the appellant that (1) that on the findings arrived at by the Allahabad High Court no offence under s. 52 Of the Post office Act had been made out.
(2) that it has not been established that the five letters were in the exclusive possession of appellant, (3) That the search of the house in which the appellant 's father 's name had been rented in his name and that the almirah was in his

Fine-Tuned Test Case 7:
Amarchand N. Shroff, Mangaldas and Hiralal were partners in a firm of solicitors.
After the death of Amarchand the arrangement between the various partners in regard to the realisation of the old outstandings was that in respect of the work done up to the death the realisations were to be divided amongst the partners, and thereafter the work between July 8, 1949, and November 30, 1919, would be divided between the partners.
The firm kept its accounts on cash basis.
For the five assessment years 1950 51 to 1954 55 the following amounts were received : Rs. 37,847/ , As.
43,162/ , Rs. 34,899/ and Rs. 13,402/ by the heirs and legal representatives of Am.
Shroff out of the income received after his death, the Income tax Officer sought to tax these realisations.
He assessed the amounts in the hands of the respondents under section 34(1) (b) read with section 24B of the Indian Income tax Act, 1922.
On appeal the Appellate Assistant Commissioner held that the notice under s.34(1)(b) could validly be served only for the assessment

Fine-Tuned Test Case 8:
The appellant firm transferred its business to a limited company with effect either from November 13, 1947 or February 13, 1948, by an instrument executed on February 7, 1948.
The appellant claimed relief under section 25(4) of the Income tax Act, 1922, contending that it was entitled to relief under that section because the discontinuance of the business gave rise to relief from taxation of its income, provided however that there had not been a succession taking place to the business mentioned in sub sec.
(4).
The claim was rejected by the Income Tax Officer and the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and also by the Tribunal on appeal to it.
Thereafter the appellant moved the Tribunal to refer a certain question to the High Court at Madras under section 66(1) Of the Act but that application was rejected.
It then moved the High court under section 666(2) and directed it to refer the following question for determination: "Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the assessee is not entitled to.
relief under s.25(4), and to what extent?" The Tribunal duly drew up a statement of case and referred the question along with it to the high Court.


Fine-Tuned Test Case 9:
Certain commodities including chuni could only be exported from the former State of Dholpur on export permits issued by the customs department of the said State.
It was also the practice in that State that when permits for export were issued, export duties had to be paid in advance, though the actual export was made later.
In June 1947, the respondent was granted a permit for export of 15,000 maunds of chuni and in connection therewith he deposited Rs. 30,000/as export duty in advance.
This permit had been granted on June 28, 1947 and remained in force upto December 2, 1947.
The respondent however was not able to export the entire quantity of 15

Fine-Tuned Test Case 10:
An award had been made by an Industrial Tribunal fixing the pay of the employees of the appellant company and in pursuance of the said award, the management of the company had entered into an agreement with the respondents that effect would be given to the wage structure, prescribed by the award.
The agreement was subsequently published in the Bihar Gazette as a part of the award and in spite of this agreement the appellant paid its employees only As.
/10/ per day and that led to the present claim made by the respondents under section 15 of the , for an order directing the appellant to pay to them the said prescribed wages.
Before the payment of wages authority, the respondents contended that the refusal to pay wages at the rate awarded, in substance, amounted to an illegal deduction from their wages and on that basis, they asked for the order of the authority directing the company to pay the prescribed wages and the company resisted the claim on the grounds, inter alia, that section 15 was inapplicable as the rates of wages fixed by an award did not fall within the definition of wages as defined by section 2(vi) of the Act and that the claim of the respondents was barred by limitation.
Held, that the wages prescribed by a wage

Fine-Tuned Test Case 11:
The general practice of the respondent company was to retire its employees at the age of 55 though in some cases the company in its discretion permitted an employee to continue beyond that age.
In 1959 an agreement was entered into between the company and its employees in Calcutta under which the age Of compulsory retirement was extended to 58 years subject to the employees passing a medical examination on reaching the age ,of 55.
Shortly after this the company 's employees in Bombay raised a dispute regarding their retirement age and claimed that no workman should be retired from service before he bad completed 60 years of age and the dispute was ultimately referred to the Industrial Tribunal, Maharashtra.
Before the Tribunal the company resisted the workmen 's claim but submitted that it was agreeable to introduce for its Bombay employees provisions similar to those which had been introduced by agreement for the Cal cutta employees.
The Tribunal directed that age of retirement should be 58 but the company may in its.
discretion and with the express or implied consent of the employee concerned continue an employee after he attains that age and it was against this decision that the present appeal was filed.
Held, that the Tribunal was wrong in directing the company to continue the employee after attaining that age but it was

Fine-Tuned Test Case 12:
The assessee, a Hindu undivided family headed by one Sri Trivikram Narain Singh was the descendant of one Sri Babu Ausan Singh who was the original founder and owner of what is known as Ausanganj State in the district of Benaras.
The British Government granted a sanad of Raj to Raja Chet Singh who in turn gave the Jagir of Parganas Seyedpore and Bhittery in perpetuity to one Sri B.
In 1796 there were some disputes between B and the Zamindars and the matter was referred to the Board of Revenue in Calcutta.
Disputes ultimately ended in 1837 by a compromise between the British Government and the then Jagirdar N. N. H. Sarpanch whereby the Government of India granted a pension of Rs. 36,322/8/ to B and his heirs.
By this arrangement the revenue or land collections of Jagir became payable direct to the Government and by the grant of the pension, the Jagirdars no longer remained the proprietors of the parganas or the jagir and became entitled to merely a pension.
During the previous year of the assessment year 1949 50, the ass

Fine-Tuned Test Case 13:
The workmen of the Bombay Port Trust were employed in the Prince 's and Victoria Docks, the Alexandra Docks and Butcher Island and the Flotilla Crew.
Previously, the shore crew at all these places worked in a single shift and were liable to be called out at any hour of the day or night.
When the two shift system of work was introduced, each shift of 12 hours was broken up into 8 hours duty, 2 hours ' variable recess and 2 hours overtime.
The hours of rest were kept variable as they depended on the tides.
In 1956 the workmen made a demand for a fixed recess of two hours but the Trustees rejected the demand on the ground that it was a device to get 4 hours ' overtime and that if the demand was pressed a three shift system would be introduced.
They retraced their steps and accepted a 2 hours variable recess but requested that it should be as near the middle of the shift as possible.
Meanwhile studies were being made and it was found that the work hours at the different Docks were not equal: they were heavier at the Alexandra docks than at the other Docks.
It was therefore decided that the shore crews at the Prince and Victoria docks should work

Fine-Tuned Test Case 14:
The National Industrial Tribunal (Bank Disputes) Award of 1962 divided the employees of the appellant bank into two groups.
The first group consisted of workmen who were drawing basic pay on January 1, 1962 according to scales of pay provided by the Sastry Award, 1953, as modified by the Labour Appellate Tribunal, and the second consisted of those who were employed in banks which were not governed by the provisions of that award as modified and were not thus drawing basic wages on the footing of scales of wages provided by that award.
In the first case the Desai award provided that the workmen would be fitted in the new scales.
of pay from January, 1962 on stage to stage adjustment basis, i.e., those workmen drawing basic.
pay at a particular stage in the time scale of the S.I.T. Award as modified would draw basic pay at the same stage in new scale applicable to them under the Desa.
aw.
As to the second group, the Des.
A provided that these employees would first be.
fitted in the appropriate scales provided in the.
Sastry Awards as modified as on January.
1, 1962 and thereafter they would be, fitted in

Fine-Tuned Test Case 15:
The appellants filed a suit under section 87 of the Madras Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act, 1951, for a declaration about their title to the properties in suit and for a permanent injunction restraining respondents 1 to 3, who claimed to be the trustees of an alleged Pachai Kandai Udayavar Temple at Eragudi, from interfering with their possession of the same.
The suit was decreed by the trial court.
On appeal, the trial judge held that the grant of the Inam was a personal Inam, that it was not a grant in favour of the religious endowment within the meaning of the Act, and that the appellants had acquired title by prescription.
Held, that the suit was not maintainable as the grant was not one of a personal nature and was not an endowment.
It was a grant of agricultural lands granted in Inam by the Carnatic Rulers before the advent of the British power in India to the ancestor of one Ambalathadum P. K. Udaya, who was burdened with the obligation of performing certain services in a Matam, and the properties were alienated from time to time, and as a result of the last alienation

Fine-Tuned Test Case 16:
On May 19, 1965, the Secretary of the Company Law Board issued an order under section 237(b) of the appointing 4 persons as Inspectors for investigating the affairs of the appellant company since its incorporation in the year 1961 and to report to the company Law Board inter alia "all the irregularities and contravention in respect of the provisions of the or of any other law for the time being in force and the person or persons responsible for such irregularities and.
 contravention.
" The order was challenged by the company on the grounds (1) that the order was made mala fide, (2) that in making the order the Board had acted on material extraneous to the matters mentioned in section 237, (3) that on a true construction of section 237 this could not be done, (4) that it was invalid because it was made by the Chairman of the Board and not by the Board, and (5) that section 237 was void as offending articles 14 and 19(1) (g) Of the Constitution.
The allegations of mala fides were denied on behalf of the respondents.
They disputed the validity of all the other grounds raised by the petitioners.
On June 4, 1965 the company preferred a writ

Fine-Tuned Test Case 17:
The appellant was elected to a seat in the West Bengal Legislative Assembly from the Khargram Murshidabad constitutency reserved for members of the Scheduled Castes.
The respondent, a member of a Scheduled Caste, challenged the election of the appellant on the ground that he belonged to an independent caste which had nothing to do with Sunri caste and that it was, therefore, not open to him at the trial to contend that the appellant was a Sunri Caste member.
Held, that in view of the provisions of article 341 of the Constitution, the appellant could not be said to belong to any Schedule Caste and the respondent could not claim to be an independent Saha Caste.
Article 40 of Part 13 of the Schedule to the Constitution provided that "Sunri excluding Saha" stood as follows: "Saha excluding Sunri.
" and some other items of the schedule were made applicable to the State of West Bengal except the Purulia District and the territories transferred from Purnea District of Bihar and it was with this item that the question arose as to whether the appellant, who had stated in his nomination paper that he was member of the Saha caste and not a member Of the Sunri

Fine-Tuned Test Case 18:
The respondent purchased the business carried on by one P who was the sole proprietor of the business and had been assessed to sales tax in respect of his turnover for the years 1948 49 and 1949 50.
The respondent paid some amounts towards sales tax thus determined but there were some arrears of sales tax i.e., Rs. 3836 4 0 and Rs. 1218 1 9 for 1949 50, which were recovered by the sales tax authorities from the respondent.
Rule 21 A of the Sales Tax Rules framed by the State Government under the rule making power granted to it under section 19(1) and (2) of the Madras General Sales Tax Act, 1939, provided that "when the ownership of a business of a dealer liable to pay the tax under the Act is entirely transferred, any tax payable in respect Of such business and remaining unpaid at the time of the transfer shall be recoverable from the transferor or the transferee as if they were the dealers liable topay such tax.
" The respondent denied liability to pay sales tax but his contention was over ruled by the Deputy Commercial Tax Officer and the Board of Revenue.
He then moved the High Court under article 226 of the Constitution for the issue of a writ in the nature

Fine-Tuned Test Case 19:
The Bombay Village Panchayat Act, 1958 (Bombay Act III of 1959) came into force on June 1, 1959, and by virtue of this Act the appellant was deemed to be a Panchaya under the Act.
On July 14, 1961, the appellant passed a resolution with a view to levy octroi duty and on November 17, 1962, a resolution No. 5 was passed which read as follows: "5.
The meeting considered the question of imposition of octroI duty.
It has been unanimously resolved that by virtue Of Resolution No. 2, dated 14 7 61, that octoi duty shall be imposed on the goods coming into its local limits, the committee accepts the same.
" On January 26, 1963, a public notice was issued under r. 3(b) of the Maharashtra Village Pachayats Taxes and Fees Rules, 1960, under which a public objection was preferred against the proposed levy of octri.
After setting out the previous resolutions and the publication of the notice by beat of drum and the various objections received, it concluded: "Having considered all these above objections and suggestions and having given a satisfactory explanation for the same, this Committee unanimously resolves that as per the above resolution

Fine-Tuned Test Case 20:
The plaintiff, the appellant, instituted a suit for ejectment of three persons, Abdul Rahim, Abdul Hamid and Abdul Gaffur, from the property in suit.
In the notice to quit served on the plaintiff the first two persons were described as thika tenants and the third as a person who had purported to purchase the structures on the land and the tenancy right therein.
No claim was made for rents or taxes although it was alleged that the same were in arrears.
The suit was decreed by a Munsif of Sealdah Court, 24 Parganas on March 18, 1949 after the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act, 1949 had come into force on February 28, 1949 and the appeal filed therefrom by the third defendant was dismissed by the Subordinate Judge.
On November 23, 1949, the decree holder put the decree in execution and recovered possession of the land on December 18, 949.
By an Ordinance passed on October 21, 1952, the definition of thika tenant in the Act was amended and on March 14, 1953, the Amending Act of 1953 was passed amending the definition further and introducing important changes.
Before the Rent Controller, a point was taken that

Fine-Tuned Test Case 21:
The Orissa Superior Judicial Service (senior branch) is a combined cadre consisting of officers holding purely judicial posts as well as posts which are essentially administrative in character.
It consists of eight district and sessions judges, two additional district and Sessions judges, secretary to government in law department, superintendent and legal remembrancer, law department.
Deputy Secretary to Government in the law department and the Registrar of the Orissa High Court.
Out of these, the District and Sessions Judges and Additional District and Session Judges were discharging purely judicial functions.
In view of article 229 of the Constitution, the power to appoint the Registrar was exclusively that of the Chief Justice.
The power of transfer of a district judge from one post to another was in the hands of the Governor though that power was always exercised in consultation with the High Court and by and large on the recommendation of the High court.
After the decision of the Assam High Court in Ranga Mahammad vs The State of Assam and others, the Government of Orissa took a general policy to the effect that as a general rule, judicial officers working in special cadre, outside their regular line, should be recalled to the regular line after the completion of three years, so that the service

Fine-Tuned Test Case 22:
The respondent and 49 others were charged with various offences alleged to have been committed by them in the course of their raid as an armed gang on a certain factory known as the Jessop Factory at Dum Dum and they were convicted and sentenced to varying terms of imprisonment by the Special Court to which the case was sent for trial by the Governor of West Bengal by a notification dated 26th January, 1950, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 (1) of the West Bengal Special Courts Act, 1950.
Thereupon the respondent applied to the High Court under article 226 of the Constitution for the issue of a writ of certiorari quashing the conviction and sentence on the ground that the Special court had no jurisdiction to try the case inasmuch as section 5(1), under which it was sent to that Court for trial, was uncon stitutional and void under article 13(2) as it denied to the respondent the equal protection of the laws enjoined by article 14.
The High Court by a Full Bench consisting of the Chief Justice and four other Judges quashed the conviction of the respondent and the other accused persons according to law.
On appeal by the State, Held, that section 5 of the Act was unconstitutional as it contravened

Fine-Tuned Test Case 23:
A complaint was filed before the Nyaya Panchayat alleging that he had been abused and be laboured and his property worth Rs. 40/ was damaged.
The case was adjourned to December 25, 1963.
On October 11, 1963, one of the appellants made an application under section 85 of the U.P. Panchyat Raj Act, 1947, to the S.D.M., Deoria, to transfer the proceedings on the ground that the complainant was father of the Sarpanch of the Naya Pachayat, Jokha Khas.
This application was rejected on November 28, 1963 and on December 13, 1963 a notice was issued to the five appellants to assemble on December 25 to hear the case.
An application under article 227 of the Constitution challenging the order of the sarpanch was moved on December 20 and on the same day the Allahabad High Court admitted the application and stayed further proceedings pending before the nayayat pending the receipt of the stay order.
It was alleged on the side of the applicant, Mahabir, that an application accompanied by an affidavit and the telegram of his counsel in the High Court was presented before the Nayaya P

Fine-Tuned Test Case 24:
An industrial dispute between the workmen of Orient Paper Mills Ltd. and the management of the company was referred by the State Government under section 10(1) (d) of the Industrial Disputes Act for adjudication by the Tribunal enumerating 30 different items of dispute.
The Tribunal gave its award on all the thirty items.
Special leave was sought and granted in respect of two matters covered by items Nos. 1, 3, 4, 22 and 26 in the Schedule attached to the Order of Reference.
In the appeal by special leave, it was contended that the Tribunal, after holding that there was no identical industry in this region comparable with the company, came to the view that there were other industries in the region in which minimum wages were higher than the minimum wages paid by the company but failed to fix the Minimum wages in the award in accordance with the minimum wage being paid in those industries.
Instead, what the Tribunal did was to work out the Minimum Wages, which should be paid, on an entirely different basis.
It was also urged in the alternative that, in making the calculation, the Tribunal only tried to neutralise about 36 per cent of the cost of living on the basis of the rise in Price Index instead of permitting neutralisation

Fine-Tuned Test Case 25:
The plaintiff was acting as Accountant at Rajkot Central Jail when he was suspended on March 25, 1954.
On March 7, 1954, he was served with a charge sheet and an enquiry was held by the Inspector General of Prisons, Saurashtra.
The Enquiry Officer made a report and on or about January 7, 1955, a notice was issued to him calling upon him to show cause why he should not be dismissed from service "To Shri Bhaishankar A. A. Joshi, Accountant, R. C. Prison (Under section C. R. No. 3 54 and in the charges of having accepted illegal gratification from prisoner Ratilal Jivan have been established to the satisfaction of the Government, you are hereby asked to show why the punishment of dismissal from service should be not inflicted upon you.
You should please submit your reply to this office, through the Superintendent of Central Prison, without fail, within a week from the date of receipt of this letter without fail.
" The plaintiff filed a written statement and on February 2, 1955 he was dismissed by an order dated February 2/4, 1955.
He filed a suit for a declaration that the order of dismissal was illegal

Fine-Tuned Test Case 26:
The petitioners were employed in the ministerial services of the Andhra Pradesh Government.
On January 19, 1969, it was decided that to implement what were called Telengana Safeguards, the following measures should be taken : "All non domicile persons, who have been appointed either directly, by promotion or by transfer to posts reserved under the andhra Pradesh Public Employment (Requirement as to Residence) Rules, 1959, will be immediately relieved from service.
The posts so rendered vacant will be filled by qualified candidates possessing domiciliary qualifications and in cases where such candidates are not available the posts shall be left unfilled till qualified domiciles candidates become available.
" The Government then passed an order (G.O.Ms. 36, G.A. (SR) Dept.) on January 21, 1969 relieving before February 28, 1969 all non domi cliile persons appointed on or after November 1, 1956, to certain categories of posts reserved for domiciled persons under the said Rules.
These supernumerary posts were to be treated as temporary addition to the strength of the office concerned and to be adjusted against future vacancies in corresponding posts as they arose.
This was based upon section 3 of

Fine-Tuned Test Case 27:
A building in Ahmedabad used as a cinematograph theatre belonged originally to Messrs. Popatlal Punjabhai.
estate of the owners and on August 19, 1954, the receivers granted a lease of the theatre on certain terms and conditions to two persons, Raval and Faraqui, by an agreement dated November 27, 1954.
On September 1, 1963, "Filmistan" filed a suit for a declaration that as sub lessee or as lessee under law it was entitled to obtain and remain in possession of the Theatre and to exhibit cinematographs films and to hold "entertainment performances" etc.
in the theatre and that one Shabeer Hussain Khan Tejabwala had no right, title or interest in the theatre.
The suit was based on the claim by Filmistan as lessees or sub lessee of the theater and was exclusively triable by the Court of Small Causes by virtue of section 28 of the Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act, 1947.
Three sets of written statements were filed against the claim made by the defendants but no reference need be made thereto as at this stage in deciding appeal the merits of the pleas raised by defendants were not relevant.

Fine-Tuned Test Case 28:
M/s. Amarchand Sobhachand, a firm registered under the Indian Income tax Act, 1922, carried on business at Madras in drugs, chemicals, mercury, camphor and silk yam and as money lenders.
The appellants had for a long time business relations with a firm styled "Bhojaji Sohachand" carrying on business in Bombay as importers of yam.
In the books of account of the appellants which were main tained according to the mercantile system there was a current sarafi account in respect of their transactions with the Bombay firm in which were credited the funds transmitted from Bombay in respect Of their business transactions.
Entries relating to interest were posted till the end of Samvat Year 2006 in the account on the amount due at the foot of the account.
For the assessment year 1952 53 relevant to the account year 2007 all item of Rs. 2,03,147 8 O in the, account of Bombay was disallowed by the Income tax Officer, but in appeal the amount was allowed.
in the return of income for the assessment years 1953 54 the assessee claimed allowance for the amount of 2,68,385/ due from Bombay firm at the

Fine-Tuned Test Case 29:
Section 5(1) of the Taxation on Income (Investigation Commission) Act, 1947, provided as follows: " The Central Government may at any time before the first day of September, 1948, refer to the Commission any case in which the Government has reasons for believing that a person has to a substantial extent evaded tax, together with such material as may be available in such time as might be available to it, and no reference made by the Central Government under sub section, (1) shall be called in question, nor shall the sufficiency of the reference be sufficent on such a reference be called into question.
" The petitioner company was a registered company registered under the Indian Companies Act and its managing director was also the managing director of another company.
The Central Government made a reference to the Investigation Commission appointed under the Act on the 1st September, 1947.
During the investigation of that case which was numbered 831/30 in the records of the Commission it was said to have been discovered that the petitioner company had made secret profits which it had not disclosed and had thus evaded income tax.
On the 28th August, 1953, a report to this effect was made to the Government under the provisions of section 5

Fine-Tuned Test Case 30:
The appellant was a Sub Divisional Officer in the Public Works Department, Pepsu.
It was part of his duties to disburse the wages to the workmen employed in the works, and the procedure usually followed was that be drew the amount required from the treasury, and paid the same to the emplo yees against their signatures or thumb impressions in the monthly acquittance roll.
In the roll for April 1951, one Parma was mentioned as a khalasi (menial servant), and a sum of Rs. 51 shown as paid to him for his wages, the payment being vouched by thumb impression.
The First Class Magistrate framed charges against him under section 465 of the Indian Penal Code for forging the thumb impression of Parma, and under section 409 for criminal misappropriation of the same, and after a full trial acquitted him.
Against this judgment the State appealed to the High Court which held that proof that thumb impression in the acquitt ment roll was that of the appellant was sufficient, when taken along with other circumstances, to establish his guilt, and accordingly convicted him both under sections 465 and section 409 of the Penal Code.
Held, that sanction under section 197(1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure

Fine-Tuned Test Case 31:
The assessee was the sole proprietor of a business carried on under the name and style of Indestro Sales and Service Co. at No. 50 52, Lohar Chawl Street in the City of Bombay.
Two private limited companies, Indestro India Ltd. and Indestro Eastern Ltd., also carried on business and had their respective offices in the same premises.
The Income tax Officer assessed the assessee to income tax for the years 1943 44 to 1947 1948 and 1951 1952 by the Third Income Tax Officer, C 1 Ward, Bombay, at and for Rs. 40,178 4 0.
Not having paid up the assessed amount of tax the Income tax officer on the 10th April 1951 issued to the Additional Collector of Bombay, the first respondent herein, a recovery certificate under section 46(2) of the Income Tax Act.
On the 1st February, 1954, the Additional collector issued a notice of demand on the assessees for payment of the assessed amounts of tax.
No payment having been made, he attached the goodwill and tenancy rights in the said premises by a warrant of attachment issued on the 24th March, 1954.
A sale was held on the 25th February, 1955, and it was confirmed

Fine-Tuned Test Case 32:
The respondent, a Custodian of Evacuee Property, entered into an agreement with the appellants, displaced persons, on 30 8 1952, under which the mills and the factory in question were leased to them for a period of five years on the terms and conditions set out therein.
Secondly, there was a sale of the stock of raw materials, unsold finished goods, spare parts, cars, trucks and other movables which were in the mills with elaborate provisions for the determination and payment of the price therefor in the due course.
Thirdly there was an agreement to sell the mills to the appellant in certain events and subject to certain conditions.
There was also a clause for referring the disputes between the parties to arbitration.
In pursuance of this agreement, the appellantants were put in possession of the mills on 31 8 1952.
On 12 2 1954, the respondent issued a notice under section 12 of the , calling upon them to show cause why the lease should not be cancelled.
The appellants contended before the respondent that he had no authority to issue the notice under the section and that it was therefore illegal.
Apprehending that the lease might be cancelled and that they might be evicted, the appell

Fine-Tuned Test Case 33:
The appellant, an Advocate of the High Court of Bombay, was detained by the Government of Bombay under an order of detention passed by the Governor of Bombay on the 8th June, 1955, in pursuance of the powers conferred by sub clause (1) of clause (a) of section 3 of the , and the grounds of detention were served on him along with the order.
The appellant challenged the validity of the order on the grounds, inter alia, that the order was mala fide as it was passed for the ulterior purpose of preventing his freedom of speech and freedom of professional activity in the sphere of Goan affairs by reason of his known views in this behalf and that the detaining authority had failed to apply its mind to the existence or otherwise of the legitimate objects of detention.
Held, that in view of the provisions of section 7(1)(a) and sub section
(1) Of section 3 Of the , the detention of the appellant was valid.
It was not necessary for the Government to furnish particulars of the grounds on which detention was based and the claim of the Government that no particulars could be furnished in public interest was unsustainable and in any case

Fine-Tuned Test Case 34:
Five persons including the three appellants were prosecuted for the murder of one R.
Each was convicted and each was sentenced to death under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.
The appeals and the confirmation proceedings in the High Court were heard by M. section Ali Khan and V. R. Deshpande, JJ.
They differed on the question of maintaining the convictions and sentences and the former was of opinion that the sentence in each case should be commuted to imprisonment for life and the latter favoured an acquittal in all five cases.
A third Judge, who agreed with the opinion of the first judge, held that the death sentences should be maintained and those of the other two should be Commuted to transportation for life.
Held, that the conviction and sentences were maintained as well as the convictions.
All five convicts applied for leave to appeal to the Supreme Court.
It was refused.
Pandurang, Tukia and Bhilia, who were sentenced to the death, applied for special leave.
Their petition was granted.
Two of the eye witnesses were considered unreliable by the third judge and the main question to consider was whether they can be believed.
Ordinarily,

Fine-Tuned Test Case 35:
The provisions of the Madras Commercial Crops Markets Act, 1933 (Mad XX of 1933) and the Rules framed thereunder are not unreasonable restrictions upon the fundamental right of the appellants to carry on their business and do not achieve the object of the Act.
Section 5(4) of the said Act is void to the extent it conferred on the Collector authority to refuse a licence at his own discretion and so far as it had prohibited persons whose names had not yet been registered as buyers and sellers, from carrying on business in the notified area, subject to the impugned Act and Rules being upheld under article 19(6) Of the Constitution as valid piece of marketing legislation.
The appellants challenged the constitutional validity of the provisions of sections 5(1) and 5(2) and 6(3) of Act on the grounds, inter alia, (1) that the provisions were unreasonable restrictions on their fundamental right to do business and (2) that they infringed their fundamental rights under articles 19(1)(i) and 19(2), (ii) that section 5(3), (iii) and (iv) contravened the fundamental rights guaranteed to them under articles 14, 19(4), (v) and

Fine-Tuned Test Case 36:
The appellant brought a suit as the sole executor of the will alleged to have been executed by one Lakshmamma on August 22, 1945, in which he claimed a declaration that she was the owner of the properties mentioned in the schedule attached to the plaint and as such was entitled to dispose of them by a will and be asked for consequential reliefs purporting to give effect to the bequests made by the said will.
The appellant also claimed to recover Rs. 2,106 which had been collected by respondent 1 by way of income from the suit lands and a further prayer was made for the payment of current mesne profits.
Respondents 2 to 4 were the sons of the appellant.
It was also alleged that the appellant 's father had executed a will on August 31, 1901, under which he had bequeathed certain properties in favour of Lakshmammma and Sadagopalachar with the express stipulation that the survivor of the legatees should take the whole of the wholequest by survivorship.
On the death of the father it was further alleged that he had made a bad bad deed of gift of the said properties, items 1 and 2, to the extent of Rs. 10,

Fine-Tuned Test Case 37:
The assessee, a public limited company, filed its incometax return for the assessment year 1948 49 showing an income of Rs. 11,872 for the previous year ending June 30, 1949, its accounting year being the previous calendar year.
The Income tax Officer determined its assessable income to be Rs. 90,947 representing only the profit it made in the erstwhile State of Travancore and under section 32(1) proviso (1) of the Travanore Income tax Act, 1922, refused a deduction of the sum shown as loss from branches situated outside the State, in British India and other Indian States.
On appeal the Appellate Tribunal held that the banking business of the assessee being one and indivisible for the purpose of determining the amount assessable to income tax, it was entitled to deduct the loss incurred outside the state from the profits accruing and arising in that State.
In appeal to the High Court the question was referred to the Commissioner of Income tax whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the loss arising in the State of Cochin could be set off against the profit of the business in the former State of C. A. No. 259

Fine-Tuned Test Case 38:
The appellants were convicted under section 31(1) read with section 33 of the , for contravening the provisions of section 33(1)(a) of the Act.
The object of conciliation proceedings under section 12 of the is to get a settlement made with expedition and therefore the Conciliation Officer is bound to make his report within 14 days of the commencement of the proceedings or within such shorter period fixed by the appropriate Government.
Held, that the object of a conciliation proceeding before a Conciliation officer is to settle disputes between the employer and his workmen and not to alter the prejudice of the workmen in such dispute, save with the express permission in writing of the authority before the proceeding is started.
Section 31(2) of , makes the contravention of that section an offence punishable with imprisonment for a period which may extend to six months or with fine or with both.
It is not correct to say that the dismissal of a workman under section 20 of the can be said to be one within the purview of the words " pendency " in section 20(2), because the dismissal is not said to have taken place during the pendency of any proceedings before the conciliation officer but after the conclusion of

Fine-Tuned Test Case 39:
The appellant was the tenant of a flat in Bombay.
He wanted to go to the United Kingdom for treatment of his failing eye sight and he got into touch with the complainant for the purpose of making necessary arrangements about the flat occupied by him in view of his intended departure.
The complainant actually paid the appellant two sums of Rs. 500 each on 7th and 17th November, 1948, and in conjunction with the latter, a trap was laid for the appellant.
It was arranged that the complainant should bring with him Rs. 1,000, being the balance due in respect of the furniture and that the police would give him the balance of the sum to be paid to the appellant in consideration for putting the complainant in vacant possession of the flat.
A Sub Inspector, posing as the complainant 's brother, went to the appel lant and paid him the two sums and handed over the keys to the complainant.
As the appellant and his wife were leaving the flat, the Sub Inspector threw off his disguise and disclosed his identity and the police party held up the car of the appellant, recovered the sum of Rs 30,500 from the rear seat of the car and also some papers, a typed draft of a partnership agreement be

Fine-Tuned Test Case 40:
An agreement was entered into between the Rajah of Venkatagiri and one Sri Balumuri Nageswara Rao whereby the Raja agreed to give annual leases in respect of certain slate quarries within his estate for five years in succession commencing from February 1942 if he was satisfied with the work carried on by the lessee during the preceding year.
On the expiry of the fifth year, however, he granted another lease to another person for a short period commencing February 1, 1947, and ending on November 30, 1947.
The Rajah on the same day granted a lease for twenty years to the appellant and on September 7, 1949, the estate was notified under section 3 of the Madras Estate (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1948 (Madras Act XXVI of 1948).
The appellant applied to the Collector for confirmation of the lease granted to him.
Nothing appears to have happened until February 12, 1952, when a notice was issued from the office of the Board of Revenue calling upon the appellant to show cause within two months from the date of receipt of the notice as to why the lease should not be terminated without any compensation under the second proviso to section 20(1)

